- Previously, we talked about bounded contexts
and leveraging domain-driven design
for appropriate boundaries on microservices in general.
When it gets to the data access layer itself,
the so called data services,
things get a little different at times.
In the data layer, you have to take more into account
than simply the bounded context of your domain
because now you have to deal with data transactions.
We are going to talk about base versus asset later on,
but one of the hardest changes
especially for larger enterprise systems
is removing the transactional boundaries
in an existing database.
It isn't easy to just quit doing operations transactionally
and if you think you can just leverage
distributed transactions to solve these problems
in a microservices architecture,
stop now, stick with your monolith,
as I promise you this will be nothing but pain
for you and your team.
Again, we're going to talk about this more later,
but it is important to understand
this places a constraint on the design decisions
for data domains.
Building data domains for low-level services
is one of the hardest parts of a microservices architecture
for various reasons.
This usually is because it involves decomposing
a monolithic database into smaller individual systems.
Now, there are a couple of different ways
of tackling this problem and we're going to look at both.
The first strategy is to simply start
with the database itself
and break it up into smaller databases
and then build the associated services.
Now, while this may yield a quicker result,
it tends to put you in a bind if you make a mistake.
If you are well-versed in your system utilization,
it can be a quicker path
so it really depends on what you know
and how well you know it.
Migrating data is significantly harder in a live system
than building services,
especially if you leverage an API layer for those services.
This brings us to the second
and more recommended pattern of building your data domains
and that is to start with the services
instead of the database.
By starting with the services
and having them all connect to the monolithic database,
you'll start to see if your domains are well-defined.
You can see the traffic flows across the network
and leverage that knowledge
to start modeling your data itself.
The overall objective is to minimize
the cross-domain calls where possible,
enforce your needed transaction boundaries,
and then you can start decomposing your databases
into smaller instances.
Building strong data domains is critical
to a solid microservices architecture.
Most if not all operations through the system
will touch one or more data domains.
They can become a large source of pain
if you don't take the time up front to solidify them.
Take your time with these components
and ensure you focus on the most efficient operations
throughout your system.
You'll thank me later.